monster taunt coincides with targeting - Monster's seem to always say their taunt line before making any damaging attacks.  But sometimes the game also renders "[monster name] is getting ready to combat you!" after the taunt, although it seems kind of rare.  try to model how that seems to be working.  Perhaps it will just be like a 5% chance of the "[monster name] is getting ready to combat you!" line being rendered immediately after a monster taunt line is rendered; try to model it as best as you can.

In these game captures you may notice a player name such as "Vindeiatrix".  That is because in the original game which these game captures come from, there is a player name which is actually the BBS account holders handle.  However, player names have not been implemented our game we're developing now; you can use "Vindeiatrix" as a placeholder (I may never implement player names because I will be the only one playing it, I'm developing this game for my own personal use so the player name Vindeiatrix can be hardcoded in as the only player name as far as I'm concerned)

Since you're seeing the heal command being used a bunch in these game captures, let's go ahead and include implementation of the heal command in our series of codex tasks you're writing.  The healing rate is the same for every class and is completely level based.  Every class can heal their level + 5 hit points.  So, a level 1 player can heal 6 hit points per use of the "heal" command, and a level 11 player can heal 16.  Heal follows the same prefix rules as all commands do, "hea" = "heal".  Healing consumes ions for each heal and it depends on the class.  warrior and priest is 750 per level per heal.  mage is 1200 per level per heal.  wizard is 1000 per level per heal.  thief is 200 per level per heal.  So for instance, a level 13 mage would consume 15,600 ions per heal.

Monsters heal as well.  This is indicated by "[monster name]'s body is glowing!".  For now, let's model all monsters heal after the Thief class.  So, 200 ions consumed per level per heal and monster level + 5 HP healed per heal action.

Combat is turn based.  Every action is a turn. For players, anything entered into the game prompt will be a turn, even entering in gibberish.  There is no action that is not a turn.  

A player entering the game from the class selection menu is treated as a special case. for example, let's say I am playing as my warrior and I move to tile -1 -1 and then exit the game and enter back in to play as my mage for a while.  While playing as my mage, monsters move around the world (as they do naturally and autonomously according to the monster ai) and monster-abc moves into the -1 -1 tile where my warrior was last.  I exit as my mage and reenter back as my warrior.  monster-abc then gets to make a roll to target me, but that's it.  They don't get to attack me or say anything (nothing is rendered so I don't know if they failed or succeeded their roll to target me). So, if you enter into the game into a monster occupied tile, the end result is the monster either has targeted you or hasn't targeted you and the game proceeds normally from that point.

targeting - their is a targeting system that applies the same to both players and monsters.  No player can do damage to a monster without having the monster targeted and visa versa.  players use the "Combat" command to target a monster (ie com [monster name]).  The combat command follows the same prefix and first-in-list conventions as the "get" command.  In the players statistics page, their is a field that shows which monster a player is currently targeting (see game capture files).  a player or monster must be in the same tile together to target one another.  Whenever a monster targets a player, or another monster, the monsters says their taunt line.  If a player exits the game back to the class selection menu or dies, it resets/clears out their target.  A player/monster can only have one target at a time.  players/monsters can switch targets as they wish.  

Seeing shadows - As you can see in the game captures, the player will see "shadows" when a monster is in an adjacent room(s).  We need to implement this.  Also, when a monster is pursuing a player (for example a player flees west and the monster follows) when the room that the player flees into renders the shadow line (in this example seeing shadows to the west) does render.  so conceptually, if the player flees west, the player would see the shadow of the monster in the room to the east before the monster takes its turn to pursue the player by moving west.

hearing yelling and screaming - notice how the game handles audio.  The player hears "yelling and screaming" and also "footsteps".  Notice when they might use the word "far" vs not.  If it's not "far" away, then it is more than one tile away.  There is a cap to how far away a player can hear a monster yelling or moving, and that is 4 tiles away in either direction.  So, if a player is in tile 0,0, they can hear monster move from 5,0 into 4,0, but not 6,0 into 5,0.  A player could also hear a monster move from 5,5 into 5,4, but not 5,6 into 5,5.  Notice how the directions can be south, southwest, etc.  implement this.

monster death - notice the monster death block in the captures including: ion/riblet/xp transfer and loot falling to the ground, and which order the loot falls in (carried items, then skull, then worn armour).  Notice that if the ground gets full not all items will fall (they get deleted).

player death - implement a non-punishing placeholder player death system for now.  They can just respawn in year 2000 0,0 for instance.  Also, if a monster kills a player, all of the players ions and riblets transfer to the monster and persist on that monster.  

When a monster has a player targeted (ie they said their taunt line at the player), that player stays targeted by that monster even if they travel to another year.  However, if the player dies or exits to the class selection menu, the monsters target resets.

A player traveling to the same year where a monster is that has that player targeted counts as a turn.  IE, if a player is targeted by monster-a in year 2000 3,0, then travels to 2100 and later travels back to year 2000 without having died or exited, monster-a will get to take an action immediately the player travels to year 2000.

Notice in the game captures how monsters seem to get to do their screaming and yelling and it does not seem to constitute a turn for them.  So, perhaps monsters roll to see if they get to scream and yell and that is just something extra they get to do in order to make them seem more alive and emotional and immersive.

After a player targets a monster, and a player uses the wield command to wield an item, it should hit the monster.

Armor – items that are wearable and contribute to armor rating.  All armors are tagged with an armor rating.  For every +10 AC it cuts 3.15 damage from items wielded or initial bolt damage (damage will be rounded to the nearest whole number) 
